README.md, before:

# Retrieval Augmented Generation with Python, LangChain, and OpenAI API

This is a basic implementation of a RAG application built from scratch using Python, LangChain, and the OpenAI API. \
Inspired by the YouTube video "[Building a RAG application from scratch](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BrsocJb-fAo)".

This repo acts as a starting point to understand and implement RAG applications.\
Shows the basic steps to build a RAG pipeline.\
Use LangChain for managing the RAG process.\
Leverages LLM APIs (OpenAI in my case) for language model features.

## Setup Instructions

1. **Install Dependencies:**  
   Install the required packages by running:  
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

2. **Project Structure Example:**
   ```bash
   rag-application/
   ├── app.py          
   ├── data/               # Data files
   ├── requirements.txt    
   └── README.md         
   ```

3. **Implement the RAG Application (app.py):**  

   Implement the core logic of our RAG application in `app.py`. This involves:

   - **Document Loading:** Load our data source (e.g., text files, PDFs). LangChain provides document loaders for various formats.
   - **Text Splitting:** Split large documents into smaller chunks for better retrieval.
   - **Embedding Generation:** Use OpenAI embeddings to convert text chunks into vector embeddings.
   - **Vector Store and Indexing:** Create a vector store (e.g., using ChromaDB, FAISS, or others) and index the embeddings for efficient similarity search.
   - **Retrieval:** Define a retrieval mechanism to fetch relevant document chunks based on a user query.
   - **Generation:** Use the OpenAI API (example `ChatOpenAI`) and LangChain to generate answers based on the retrieved context and the user query.

4. **Set up OpenAI API Key:**  

   You will need an OpenAI API key to use the OpenAI models. Ensure to have set up our API key as an environment variable or securely configured it in the app.
   ```bash
   export OPENAI_API_KEY="YOUR_OPENAI_API_KEY"
   ```

5. **Run the Application with an example:**  

   ```bash
   python app.py "What are the benefits of RAG applications?"
   ```

---

Commit message:

Updated readme with required apis to be set up

README.md, after:

# Retrieval Augmented Generation with Python, LangChain, and OpenAI API

This is a basic implementation of a RAG application built from scratch using Python, LangChain, and the OpenAI API. \
Inspired by the YouTube video "[Building a RAG application from scratch](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BrsocJb-fAo)".

This repo acts as a starting point to understand and implement RAG applications.\
Shows the basic steps to build a RAG pipeline.\
Use LangChain for managing the RAG process.\
Leverages LLM APIs (OpenAI in my case) for language model features.

## Setup Instructions

1. **Install Dependencies:**  
   Install the required packages by running:  
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

2. **Project Structure Example:**
   ```bash
   rag-application/
   ├── app.py          
   ├── data/               # Data files
   ├── requirements.txt    
   └── README.md         
   ```

3. **Implement the RAG Application (app.py):**  

   Implement the core logic of our RAG application in `app.py`. This involves:

   - **Document Loading:** Load our data source (e.g., text files, PDFs). LangChain provides document loaders for various formats.
   - **Text Splitting:** Split large documents into smaller chunks for better retrieval.
   - **Embedding Generation:** Use OpenAI embeddings to convert text chunks into vector embeddings.
   - **Vector Store and Indexing:** Create a vector store (e.g., using ChromaDB, FAISS, or others) and index the embeddings for efficient similarity search.
   - **Retrieval:** Define a retrieval mechanism to fetch relevant document chunks based on a user query.
   - **Generation:** Use the OpenAI API (example `ChatOpenAI`) and LangChain to generate answers based on the retrieved context and the user query.

4. **Set up required API Keys:**  

   You will need an OpenAI API key, Pinecone API Key to use the models and vector DB. Ensure to  set up the required keys as an environment variables.
   ```bash

   # .env file
   OPENAI_API_KEY = YOUR_KEY_HERE
   PINECONE_API_KEY = YOUR_KEY_HERE
   PINECONE_API_ENV = YOUR_ENV_REGION_HERE
   INDEX_NAME = 'youtube-transcripts'
   ```

5. **Run the Application with an example:**  

   ```bash
   python app.py "What are the benefits of RAG applications?"
   ```

---
